# 2025-08-21
# Childhood
Is not easy start writing again, but here I am a Software Developer with many interests, ever since I was a child I liked to explore all the routes and commands in the family's computer, it was a 386 with MS-DOS and Windows 3.1. I remember playing games in both systems, for that I had to learn how to transition from MS-DOS commands to Windows and viceversa, using the graphical interface on windows and only the command line on MS-DOS. I used to play some games that I can vaguely recall on windows, like Solitaire and Minesweeper, the games I liked the most were on MS-DOS, like Wolfenstein 3D. But once I completed the game, includying the secret levels, I got bored, and started to look for new ones, I remember looking on every directory looking for games, it was thrilling and exciting like a archaeologist looking for fossils, but I found barely anything, there were more games, but they were pretty lame. Some of those games were not supposed to be found, but I found them anyway, like a hidden tetris where you had to remove the lines in order to uncover a +18 image. When I found this I figured I was not supposed to see that, so I use it as leverage with my dad and asked him to get new games... he installed a lot and I had fun, exploring all the new worlds and challenges they offered. This was my first approach to software development, I know is not programming, but it was fun and very educational to navigate the files system, explore commands, ad tinker my way through the computer unsupervised.
# Knowledge Paradigm Change
In today's world AI is a big thing and a huge potential leap for anyone to take. But from my POV, big chunks of the society are missing in the opportunity to shift and adapt. The rapid growth of AI tools and the bottomless greed of the markets create the perfect environment for trends of distraction and misinformation.
In my head the paradigm of knowledge is changing, in the past a person who knew a lot of things, historical dates, formulas, processes and so on, was considered knowledgeable. But now, with AI, the emphasis is shifting towards knowing how to find and use information effectively. It's not just about what you know, but how you can leverage AI to access and apply knowledge in real-time. Memorize seems less important than the ability to retrieve and apply information as needed.
So in the past in order to achieve something, I had to learn the process, the variables, and the tools involved. 

